1:Articles in the English language are the definite article the and the indefinite articles a and an. Use of the definite artic
2:The rules of English grammar require that in most cases a noun, or more generally a noun phrase, must be "completed" with a d
3:The definite article the is used when the referent of the noun phrase is assumed to be unique or known from the context. For 
4-with generic nouns (plural or uncountable): cars have accelerators, happiness is contagious, referring to cars in general and ha
5-with many proper names: John, France, London, etc.
6:The indefinite article a (before a consonant sound) or an (before a vowel sound) is used only with singular, countable nouns. 
7:When referring to a particular date, the definite article the is typically used.[2]
8-
9:He was born on the 10th of May.
10:However, when referring to a day of the week, the indefinite article 'a' is used.
11-
12:He was born on a Thursday.
13:No article is used with plural or uncountable nouns when the referent is indefinite (just as in the generic definite case descri many questions). For example:
14-
15:There are apples in the kitchen or There are some apples in the kitchen;
16-We do not have information or We do not have any information;
17-Would you like tea? or Would you like some tea? and Would you like any tea? or Would you like some good tea?
--
20:in noun phrases that contain other determiners (my house, this cat, America's history), although one can combine articles with iners).
21:with pronouns (he, nobody), although again certain combinations are possible (as the one, the many, the few).
22-preceding noun phrases consisting of a clause or infinitive phrase (what you've done is very good, to surrender is to die).
23:If it is required to be concise, e.g. in headlines, signs, labels, and notes, articles are often omitted along with certain oth
24:For more information on article usage, see the sections Definite article ยง Notes and ยง Indefinite article below. For more cases whe
